<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-naming-of-cats" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Naming of Cats</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The Naming of Cats is a difficult matter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It isn’t just one of your holiday games;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You may think at first I’m as mad as a hatter</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When I tell you, a cat must have <strong>three different names</strong>.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>First of all, there’s the name that the family use daily,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Such as Peter, Augustus, Alonzo or James,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such as Victor or Jonathan, George or Bill Bailey—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All of them sensible everyday names.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There are fancier names if you think they sound sweeter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Some for the gentlemen, some for the dames:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such as Plato, Admetus, Electra, Demeter—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But all of them sensible everyday names.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I tell you, a cat needs a name that’s particular,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A name that’s peculiar, and more dignified,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Else how can he keep up his tail perpendicular,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or spread out his whiskers, or cherish his pride?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of names of this kind, I can give you a quorum,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Such as Munkustrap, Quaxo, or Coricopat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such as Bombalurina, or else Jellylorum—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Names that never belong to more than one cat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But above and beyond there’s still one name left over,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And that is the name that you never will guess;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The name that no human research can discover—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But <strong>the cat himself knows</strong>, and will never confess.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you notice a cat in profound meditation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The reason, I tell you, is always the same:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His mind is engaged in a rapt contemplation</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the thought, of the thought, of the thought of his name:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">His ineffable effable</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Effanineffable</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Deep and inscrutable singular Name.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-old-gumbie-cat" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Old Gumbie Cat</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I have a Gumbie Cat in mind, her name is Jennyanydots;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her coat is of the tabby kind, with tiger stripes and leopard spots.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All day she sits upon the stair or on the steps or on the mat:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She sits and sits and sits and sits—and that’s what makes a Gumbie Cat!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">But when the day’s hustle and bustle is done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Then the Gumbie Cat’s work is but hardly begun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And when all the family’s in bed and asleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">She tucks up her skirts to the basement to creep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">She is deeply concerned with the ways of the mice—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Their behaviour’s not good and their manners not nice;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">So when she has got them lined up on the matting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">She teaches them music, crocheting and tatting.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have a Gumbie Cat in mind, her name is Jennyanydots;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her equal would be hard to find, she likes the warm and sunny spots.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All day she sits beside the hearth or on the bed or on my hat:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She sits and sits and sits and sits—and that’s what makes a Gumbie Cat!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">But when the day’s hustle and bustle is done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Then the Gumbie Cat’s work is but hardly begun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">As she finds that the mice will not ever keep quiet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">She is sure it is due to irregular diet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And believing that nothing is done without trying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">She sets right to work with her baking and frying.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">She makes them a mouse-cake of bread and dried peas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And a <em>beautiful</em> fry of lean bacon and cheese.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have a Gumbie Cat in mind, her name is Jennyanydots;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The curtain-cord she likes to wind, and tie it into sailor-knots.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She sits upon the window-sill, or anything that’s smooth and flat:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She sits and sits and sits and sits—and that’s what makes a Gumbie Cat!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">But when the day’s hustle and bustle is done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Then the Gumbie Cat’s work is but hardly begun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">She thinks that the cockroaches just need employment</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To prevent them from idle and wanton destroyment.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">So she’s formed, from that lot of disorderly louts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A troop of well-disciplined helpful boy-scouts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With a purpose in life and a good deed to do—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And she’s even created a Beetles’ Tattoo.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So for Old Gumbie Cats let us now give three cheers—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On whom well-ordered households depend, it appears.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="growltigers-last-stand" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Growltiger’s Last Stand</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Growltiger was a Bravo Cat, who travelled on a barge:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In fact he was the roughest cat that ever roamed at large.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Gravesend up to Oxford he pursued his evil aims,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rejoicing in his title of ‘The Terror of the Thames’.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His manners and appearance did not calculate to please;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His coat was torn and seedy, he was baggy at the knees;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One ear was somewhat missing, no need to tell you why,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he scowled upon a hostile world from one forbidding eye.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The cottagers of Rotherhithe knew something of his fame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At Hammersmith and Putney people shuddered at his name.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They would fortify the hen-house, lock up the silly goose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the rumour ran along the shore: <strong>Growltiger’s on the loose!</strong></span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Woe to the weak canary, that fluttered from its cage;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Woe to the pampered Pekinese, that faced Growltiger’s rage;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Woe to the bristly Bandicoot, that lurks on foreign ships,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And woe to any Cat with whom Growltiger came to grips!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But most to Cats of foreign race his hatred had been vowed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To Cats of foreign name and race no quarter was allowed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Persian and the Siamese regarded him with fear—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because it was a Siamese had mauled his missing ear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now on a peaceful summer night, all nature seemed at play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tender moon was shining bright, the barge at Molesey lay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All in the balmy moonlight it lay rocking on the tide—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Growltiger was disposed to show his sentimental side.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His bucko mate, <strong>Grumbuskin</strong>, long since had disappeared,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to the Bell at Hampton he had gone to wet his beard;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his bosun, <strong>Tumblebrutus</strong>, he too had stol’n away—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the yard behind the Lion he was prowling for his prey.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the forepeak of the vessel Growltiger sate alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Concentrating his attention on the Lady <strong>Griddlebone</strong>.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his raffish crew were sleeping in their barrels and their bunks—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the Siamese came creeping in their sampans and their junks.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Growltiger had no eye or ear for aught but Griddlebone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Lady seemed enraptured by his manly baritone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Disposed to relaxation, and awaiting no surprise—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the moonlight shone reflected from a thousand bright blue eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And closer still and closer the sampans circled round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet from all the enemy there was not heard a sound.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lovers sang their last duet, in danger of their lives—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the foe was armed with toasting forks and cruel carving knives.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then <strong>Gilbert</strong> gave the signal to his fierce Mongolian horde;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a frightful burst of fireworks the Chinks they swarmed aboard.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Abandoning their sampans, and their pullaways and junks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They battened down the hatches on the crew within their bunks.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then Griddlebone she gave a screech, for she was badly skeered;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am sorry to admit it, but she quickly disappeared.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She probably escaped with ease, I’m sure she was not drowned—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But a serried ring of flashing steel Growltiger did surround.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The ruthless foe pressed forward, in stubborn rank on rank;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Growltiger to his vast surprise was forced to walk the plank.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He who a hundred victims had driven to that drop,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the end of all his crimes was forced to go ker-flip, ker-flop.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh there was joy in Wapping when the news flew through the land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At Maidenhead and Henley there was dancing on the strand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rats were roasted whole at Brentford, and at Victoria Dock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a day of celebration was commanded in Bangkok.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-rum-tum-tugger" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Rum Tum Tugger</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The Rum Tum Tugger is a Curious Cat:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you offer him pheasant he would rather have grouse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you put him in a house he would much prefer a flat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you put him in a flat then he’d rather have a house.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you set him on a mouse then he only wants a rat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you set him on a rat then he’d rather chase a mouse.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes the Rum Tum Tugger is a Curious Cat—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And there isn’t any call for me to shout it:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For he will do</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">As he do do</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And there’s no doing anything about it!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Rum Tum Tugger is a terrible bore:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you let him in, then he wants to be out;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’s always on the wrong side of every door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as soon as he’s at home, then he’d like to get about.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He likes to lie in the bureau drawer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he makes such a fuss if he can’t get out.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes the Rum Tum Tugger is a Curious Cat—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And it isn’t any use for you to doubt it:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For he will do</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">As he do do</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And there’s no doing anything about it!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Rum Tum Tugger is a curious beast:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His disobliging ways are a matter of habit.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you offer him fish then, he always wants a feast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When there isn’t any fish then he won’t eat rabbit.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you offer him cream then he sniffs and sneers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he only likes what he finds for himself;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So you’ll catch him in it right up to the ears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you put it away on the larder shelf.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Rum Tum Tugger is artful and knowing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Rum Tum Tugger doesn’t care for a cuddle;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he’ll leap on your lap in the middle of your sewing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there’s nothing he enjoys like a horrible muddle.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes the Rum Tum Tugger is a Curious Cat—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And there isn’t any need for me to spout it:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For he will do</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">As he do do</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And there’s no doing anything about it!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-song-of-the-jellicles" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Song of the Jellicles</h2>
			<p class="emphatic">
				<span class="i3">Jellicle Cats come out to-night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Jellicle Cats come one come all:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">The Jellicle Moon is shining bright—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Jellicles come to the Jellicle Ball.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jellicle Cats are black and white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jellicle Cats are rather small;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jellicle Cats are merry and bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And pleasant to hear when they caterwaul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jellicle Cats have cheerful faces,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jellicle Cats have bright black eyes;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They like to practise their airs and graces</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wait for the Jellicle Moon to rise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jellicle Cats develop slowly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jellicle Cats are not too big;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jellicle Cats are roly-poly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They know how to dance a gavotte and a jig.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until the Jellicle Moon appears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They make their toilette and take their repose:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jellicles wash behind their ears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jellicles dry between their toes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jellicle Cats are white and black,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jellicle Cats are of moderate size;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jellicles jump like a jumping-jack,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jellicle Cats have moonlit eyes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They’re quiet enough in the morning hours,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They’re quiet enough in the afternoon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reserving their terpsichorean powers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To dance by the light of the Jellicle Moon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jellicle Cats are black and white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jellicle Cats (as I said) are small;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If it happens to be a stormy night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They will practise a caper or two in the hall.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If it happens the sun is shining bright</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You would say they had nothing to do at all:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are resting and saving themselves to be right</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the Jellicle Moon and the Jellicle Ball.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mungojerrie-and-rumpelteazer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mungojerrie and Rumpelteazer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Mungojerrie and Rumpelteazer were a very notorious couple of cats.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As knockabout clowns, quick-change comedians, tight-rope walkers and acrobats</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They had an extensive reputation. They made their home in Victoria Grove—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That was merely their centre of operation, for they were incurably given to rove.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They were very well known in Cornwall Gardens, in Launceston Place and in Kensington Square—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They had really a little more reputation than a couple of cats can very well bear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">If the area window was found ajar</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And the basement looked like a field of war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">If a tile or two came loose on the roof,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Which presently ceased to be waterproof,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">If the drawers were pulled out from the bedroom chests,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And you couldn’t find one of your winter vests,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Or after supper one of the girls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Suddenly missed her Woolworth pearls:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then the family would say: ‘It’s that horrible cat!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was Mungojerrie—or Rumpelteazer!’—And most of the time they left it at that.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mungojerrie and Rumpelteazer had a very unusual gift of the gab.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They were highly efficient cat-burglars as well, and remarkably smart at a smash-and-grab.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They made their home in Victoria Grove. They had no regular occupation.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They were plausible fellows, and liked to engage a friendly policeman in conversation.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">When the family assembled for Sunday dinner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With their minds made up that they wouldn’t get thinner</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">On Argentine joint, potatoes and greens,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And the cook would appear from behind the scenes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And say in a voice that was broken with sorrow:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">‘I’m afraid you must wait and have dinner <em>tomorrow</em>!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For the joint has gone from the oven—like that!’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then the family would say: ‘It’s that horrible cat!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was Mungojerrie—or Rumpelteazer!’—And most of the time they left it at that.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mungojerrie and Rumpelteazer had a wonderful way of working together.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some of the time you would say it was luck, and some of the time you would say it was weather.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They would go through the house like a hurricane, and no sober person could take his oath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was it Mungojerrie—or Rumpelteazer? or could you have sworn that it mightn’t be both?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">And when you heard a dining-room smash</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Or up from the pantry there came a loud crash</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Or down from the library came a loud <i>ping</i></span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">From a vase which was commonly said to be Ming—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then the family would say: ‘Now which was which cat?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was Mungojerrie! <strong>and</strong> Rumpelteazer!’—And there’s nothing at all to be done about that!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="old-deuteronomy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Old Deuteronomy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Old Deuteronomy’s lived a long time;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He’s a Cat who has lived many lives in succession.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was famous in proverb and famous in rhyme</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A long while before Queen Victoria’s accession.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old Deuteronomy’s buried nine wives</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And more—I am tempted to say, ninety-nine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his numerous progeny prospers and thrives</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the village is proud of him in his decline.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the sight of that placid and bland physiognomy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When he sits in the sun on the vicarage wall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Oldest Inhabitant croaks: ‘Well, of all⁠ ⁠…</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Things⁠ ⁠… Can it be⁠ ⁠… really!⁠ ⁠… No!⁠ ⁠… Yes!⁠ ⁠…</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Ho! hi!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Oh, my eye!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My mind may be wandering, but I confess</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I <em>believe</em> it is Old Deuteronomy!’</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Old Deuteronomy sits in the street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He sits in the High Street on market day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bullocks may bellow, the sheep they may bleat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But the dogs and the herdsmen will turn them away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cars and the lorries run over the kerb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the villagers put up a notice: <strong>road closed</strong>—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So that nothing untoward may chance to disturb</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deuteronomy’s rest when he feels so disposed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or when he’s engaged in domestic economy:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the Oldest Inhabitant croaks: ‘Well, of all⁠ ⁠…</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Things⁠ ⁠… Can it be⁠ ⁠… really!⁠ ⁠… No!⁠ ⁠… Yes!⁠ ⁠…</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Ho! hi!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Oh, my eye!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My sight’s unreliable, but I can guess</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That the cause of the trouble is Old Deuteronomy!’</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Old Deuteronomy lies on the floor</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the Fox and French Horn for his afternoon sleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the men say: ‘There’s just time for one more,’</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then the landlady from her back parlour will peep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And say: ‘Now then, out you go, by the back door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For Old Deuteronomy mustn’t be woken—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll have the police if there’s any uproar’—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And out they all shuffle, without a word spoken.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The digestive repose of that feline’s gastronomy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Must never be broken, whatever befall:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Oldest Inhabitant croaks: ‘Well, of all⁠ ⁠…</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Things⁠ ⁠… Can it be⁠ ⁠… really!⁠ ⁠… Yes!⁠ ⁠… No!⁠ ⁠…</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Ho! hi!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Oh, my eye!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My legs may be tottery, I must go slow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And be careful of Old Deuteronomy!’</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-pekes-and-the-pollicles" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Of the Awefull Battle of the Pekes and the Pollicles</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">Together with Some Account of the Participation of the Pugs and the Poms, and the Intervention of the Great Rumpuscat</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>The Pekes and the Pollicles, everyone knows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are proud and implacable passionate foes;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is always the same, wherever one goes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Pugs and the Poms, although most people say</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That they do not like fighting, yet once in a way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They will now and again join in to the fray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Bark bark bark bark</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Bark bark <strong>bark bark</strong></span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Until you can hear them all over the Park.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now on the occasion of which I shall speak</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Almost nothing had happened for nearly a week</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(And that’s a long time for a Pol or a Peke).</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The big Police Dog was away from his beat—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I don’t know the reason, but most people think</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’d slipped into the Wellington Arms for a drink—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And no one at all was about on the street</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When a Peke and a Pollicle happened to meet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They did not advance, or exactly retreat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they glared at each other, and scraped their hind feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And started to</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Bark bark bark bark</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Bark bark <strong>bark bark</strong></span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Until you could hear them all over the Park.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now the Peke, although people may say what they please,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is no British Dog, but a Heathen Chinese.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And so all the Pekes, when they heard the uproar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some came to the window, some came to the door;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There were surely a dozen, more likely a score.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And together they started to grumble and wheeze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In their huffery-snuffery Heathen Chinese.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But a terrible din is what Pollicles like,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your Pollicle Dog is a dour Yorkshire tyke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his braw Scottish cousins are snappers and biters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every dog-jack of them notable fighters;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And so they stepped out, with their pipers in order,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Playing <i>When the Blue Bonnets Came Over the Border</i>.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then the Pugs and the Poms held no longer aloof,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But some from the balcony, some from the roof,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Joined in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the din</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Bark bark bark bark</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Bark bark <strong>bark bark</strong></span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Until you could hear them all over the Park.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now when these bold heroes together assembled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The traffic all stopped, and the Underground trembled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some of the neighbours were so much afraid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That they started to ring up the Fire Brigade.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When suddenly, up from a small basement flat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why who should stalk out but the <strong>Great Rumpuscat</strong>.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His eyes were like fireballs fearfully blazing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He gave a great yawn, and his jaws were amazing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when he looked out through the bars of the area,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You never saw anything fiercer or hairier.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And what with the glare of his eyes and his yawning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Pekes and the Pollicles quickly took warning.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He looked at the sky and he gave a great leap—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they every last one of them scattered like sheep.</span>
			</p>
			<p class="emphatic">
				<span>And when the Police Dog returned to his beat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There wasn’t a single one left in the street.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mr-mistoffelees" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mr. Mistoffelees</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You ought to know Mr. Mistoffelees!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Original Conjuring Cat—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(There can be no doubt about that).</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Please listen to me and don’t scoff. All his</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Inventions are off his own bat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s no such Cat in the metropolis;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He holds all the patent monopolies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For performing surprising illusions</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And creating eccentric confusions.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At prestidigitation</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And at legerdemain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He’ll defy examination</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And deceive you again.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The greatest magicians have something to learn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Mr. Mistoffelees’ Conjuring Turn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Presto!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Away we go!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And we all say: <strong>oh!</strong></span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Well I never!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Was there ever</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">A Cat so clever</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">As Magical Mr. Mistoffelees!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He is quiet and small, he is black</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From his ears to the tip of his tail;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He can creep through the tiniest crack,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He can walk on the narrowest rail.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He can pick any card from a pack,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He is equally cunning with dice;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He is always deceiving you into believing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That he’s only hunting for mice.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He can play any trick with a cork</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Or a spoon and a bit of fish-paste;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If you look for a knife or a fork</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And you think it is merely misplaced—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You have seen it one moment, and then it is <em>gawn</em>!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But you’ll find it next week lying out on the lawn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And we all say: <strong>oh!</strong></span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Well I never!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Was there ever</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A Cat so clever</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">As Magical Mr. Mistoffelees!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His manner is vague and aloof,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You would think there was nobody shyer—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his voice has been heard on the roof</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he was curled up by the fire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he’s sometimes been heard by the fire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he was about on the roof—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(At least we all heard that somebody purred)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which is incontestable proof</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of his singular magical powers:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And I have known the family to call</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Him in from the garden for hours,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">While he was asleep in the hall.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And not long ago this phenomenal Cat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Produced <em>seven kittens</em> right out of a hat!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And we all said: <strong>oh!</strong></span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Well I never!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Did you ever</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Know a Cat so clever</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">As Magical Mr. Mistoffelees!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="macavity-the-mystery-cat" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Macavity: The Mystery Cat</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Macavity’s a Mystery Cat: he’s called the Hidden Paw—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he’s the master criminal who can defy the Law.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’s the bafflement of Scotland Yard, the Flying Squad’s despair:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For when they reach the scene of crime—<em>Macavity’s not there!</em></span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Macavity, Macavity, there’s no one like Macavity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’s broken every human law, he breaks the law of gravity.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His powers of levitation would make a fakir stare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when you reach the scene of crime—<em>Macavity’s not there!</em></span>
				<br/>
				<span>You may seek him in the basement, you may look up in the air—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I tell you once and once again, <em>Macavity’s not there!</em></span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Macavity’s a ginger cat, he’s very tall and thin;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You would know him if you saw him, for his eyes are sunken in.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His brow is deeply lined with thought, his head is highly domed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His coat is dusty from neglect, his whiskers are uncombed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He sways his head from side to side, with movements like a snake;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when you think he’s half asleep, he’s always wide awake.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Macavity, Macavity, there’s no one like Macavity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he’s a fiend in feline shape, a monster of depravity.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You may meet him in a by-street, you may see him in the square—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when a crime’s discovered, then <em>Macavity’s not there!</em></span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He’s outwardly respectable. (They say he cheats at cards.)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his footprints are not found in any file of Scotland Yard’s.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the larder’s looted, or the jewel-case is rifled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or when the milk is missing, or another Peke’s been stifled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or the greenhouse glass is broken, and the trellis past repair—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ay, there’s the wonder of the thing! <em>Macavity’s not there!</em></span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when the Foreign Office find a Treaty’s gone astray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or the Admiralty lose some plans and drawings by the way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There may be a scrap of paper in the hall or on the stair—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it’s useless to investigate—<em>Macavity’s not there!</em></span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the loss has been disclosed, the Secret Service say:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>‘It <em>must</em> have been Macavity!’—but he’s a mile away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ll be sure to find him resting, or a-licking of his thumbs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or engaged in doing complicated long division sums.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Macavity, Macavity, there’s no one like Macavity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There never was a Cat of such deceitfulness and suavity.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He always has an alibi, and one or two to spare:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At whatever time the deed took place—<strong>Macavity wasn’t there!</strong></span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they say that all the Cats whose wicked deeds are widely known</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(I might mention Mungojerrie, I might mention Griddlebone)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are nothing more than agents for the Cat who all the time</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just controls their operations: the Napoleon of Crime!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gus-the-theatre-cat" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gus: The Theatre Cat</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Gus is the Cat at the Theatre Door.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His name, as I ought to have told you before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is really Asparagus. That’s such a fuss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To pronounce, that we usually call him just Gus.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His coat’s very shabby, he’s thin as a rake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he suffers from palsy that makes his paw shake.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet he was, in his youth, quite the smartest of Cats—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But no longer a terror to mice and to rats.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he isn’t the Cat that he was in his prime;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though his name was quite famous, he says, in its time.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And whenever he joins his friends at their club</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(Which takes place at the back of the neighbouring pub)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He loves to regale them, if someone else pays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With anecdotes drawn from his palmiest days.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he once was a Star of the highest degree—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He has acted with Irving, he’s acted with Tree.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he likes to relate his success on the Halls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the Gallery once gave him seven cat-calls.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his grandest creation, as he loves to tell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was Firefrorefiddle, the Fiend of the Fell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>‘I have played’, so he says, ‘every possible part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I used to know seventy speeches by heart.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’d extemporize back-chat, I knew how to gag,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I knew how to let the cat out of the bag.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I knew how to act with my back and my tail;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With an hour of rehearsal, I never could fail.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’d a voice that would soften the hardest of hearts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whether I took the lead, or in character parts.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have sat by the bedside of poor Little Nell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the Curfew was rung, then I swung on the bell.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the Pantomime season I never fell flat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I once understudied Dick Whittington’s Cat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But my grandest creation, as history will tell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was Firefrorefiddle, the Fiend of the Fell.’</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then, if someone will give him a toothful of gin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He will tell how he once played a part in East Lynne.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At a Shakespeare performance he once walked on pat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When some actor suggested the need for a cat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He once played a Tiger—could do it again—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which an Indian Colonel pursued down a drain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he thinks that he still can, much better than most,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Produce blood-curdling noises to bring on the Ghost.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he once crossed the stage on a telegraph wire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To rescue a child when a house was on fire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he says: ‘Now, these kittens, they do not get trained</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As we did in the days when Victoria reigned.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They never get drilled in a regular troupe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they think they are smart, just to jump through a hoop.’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he’ll say, as he scratches himself with his claws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>‘Well, the Theatre’s certainly not what it was.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These modern productions are all very well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But there’s nothing to equal, from what I hear tell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That moment of mystery</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">When I made history</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As Firefrorefiddle, the Fiend of the Fell.’</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bustopher-jones-the-cat-about-town" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bustopher Jones: The Cat About Town</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Bustopher Jones is <em>not</em> skin and bones—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In fact, he’s remarkably fat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He doesn’t haunt pubs—he has eight or nine clubs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he’s the St. James’s Street Cat!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’s the Cat we all greet as he walks down the street</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In his coat of fastidious black:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No commonplace mousers have such well-cut trousers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or such an impeccable back.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the whole of St. James’s the smartest of names is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The name of this Brummell of Cats;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we’re all of us proud to be nodded or bowed to</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By Bustopher Jones in white spats!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His visits are occasional to the <i>Senior Educational</i></span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it is against the rules</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For any one Cat to belong both to that</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the <i>Joint Superior Schools</i>.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a similar reason, when game is in season</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He is found, not at Fox’s, but <i>Blimp’s</i>;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He is frequently seen at the gay <i>Stage and Screen</i></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which is famous for winkles and shrimps.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the season of venison he gives his ben’son</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the <i>Pothunter’s</i> succulent bones;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And just before noon’s not a moment too soon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To drop in for a drink at the <i>Drones</i>.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he’s seen in a hurry there’s probably curry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the <i>Siamese</i>—or at the <i>Glutton</i>;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If he looks full of gloom then he’s lunched at the <i>Tomb</i></span>
				<br/>
				<span>On cabbage, rice pudding and mutton.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So, much in this way, passes Bustopher’s day—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At one club or another he’s found.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It can be no surprise that under our eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He has grown unmistakably round.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’s a twenty-five pounder, or I am a bounder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he’s putting on weight every day:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he’s so well preserved because he’s observed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All his life a routine, so he’ll say.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or, to put it in rhyme: ‘I shall last out my time’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is the word of this stoutest of Cats.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It must and it shall be Spring in Pall Mall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While Bustopher Jones wears white spats!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="skimbleshanks-the-railway-cat" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Skimbleshanks: The Railway Cat</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There’s a whisper down the line at 11:39</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the Night Mail’s ready to depart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saying ‘Skimble where is Skimble has he gone to hunt the thimble?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We must find him or the train can’t start.’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the guards and all the porters and the stationmaster’s daughters</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are searching high and low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saying ‘Skimble where is Skimble for unless he’s very nimble</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then the Night Mail just can’t go.’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At 11:42 then the signal’s nearly due</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the passengers are frantic to a man—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then Skimble will appear and he’ll saunter to the rear:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’s been busy in the luggage van!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">He gives one flash of his glass-green eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And the signal goes ‘All Clear!’</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And we’re off at last for the northern part</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Of the Northern Hemisphere!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You may say that by and large it is Skimble who’s in charge</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the Sleeping Car Express.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the driver and the guards to the bagmen playing cards</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He will supervise them all, more or less.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down the corridor he paces and examines all the faces</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the travellers in the First and in the Third;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He establishes control by a regular patrol</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he’d know at once if anything occurred.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He will watch you without winking and he sees what you are thinking</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it’s certain that he doesn’t approve</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of hilarity and riot, so the folk are very quiet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Skimble is about and on the move.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">You can play no pranks with Skimbleshanks!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">He’s a Cat that cannot be ignored;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">So nothing goes wrong on the Northern Mail</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">When Skimbleshanks is aboard.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh it’s very pleasant when you have found your little den</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With your name written up on the door.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the berth is very neat with a newly folded sheet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there’s not a speck of dust on the floor.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is every sort of light—you can make it dark or bright;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s a handle that you turn to make a breeze.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s a funny little basin you’re supposed to wash your face in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a crank to shut the window if you sneeze.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then the guard looks in politely and will ask you very brightly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>‘Do you like your morning tea weak or strong?’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Skimble’s just behind him and was ready to remind him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Skimble won’t let anything go wrong.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And when you creep into your cosy berth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And pull up the counterpane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">You ought to reflect that it’s very nice</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To know that you won’t be bothered by mice—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">You can leave all that to the Railway Cat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">The Cat of the Railway Train!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the watches of the night he is always fresh and bright;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every now and then he has a cup of tea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With perhaps a drop of Scotch while he’s keeping on the watch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only stopping here and there to catch a flea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You were fast asleep at Crewe and so you never knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That he was walking up and down the station;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You were sleeping all the while he was busy at Carlisle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where he greets the stationmaster with elation.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But you saw him at Dumfries, where he speaks to the police</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If there’s anything they ought to know about:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you get to Gallowgate there you do not have to wait—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Skimbleshanks will help you to get out!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">He gives you a wave of his long brown tail</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Which says: ‘I’ll see you again!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">You’ll meet without fail on the Midnight Mail</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">The Cat of the Railway Train.’</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-ad-dressing-of-cats" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Ad-dressing of Cats</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You’ve read of several kinds of Cat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my opinion now is that</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You should need no interpreter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To understand their character.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You now have learned enough to see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Cats are much like you and me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And other people whom we find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Possessed of various types of mind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For some are sane and some are mad</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some are good and some are bad</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some are better, some are worse—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But all may be described in verse.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ve seen them both at work and games,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And learnt about their proper names,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their habits and their habitat:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">
					<em>How would you ad-dress a Cat?</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So first, your memory I’ll jog,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And say: <strong>a cat is not a dog.</strong></span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now Dogs pretend they like to fight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They often bark, more seldom bite;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But yet a Dog is, on the whole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What you would call a simple soul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of course I’m not including Pekes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And such fantastic canine freaks.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The usual Dog about the Town</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is much inclined to play the clown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And far from showing too much pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is frequently undignified.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’s very easily taken in—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just chuck him underneath the chin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or slap his back or shake his paw,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he will gambol and guffaw.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’s such an easy-going lout,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’ll answer any hail or shout.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Again I must remind you that</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A Dog’s a Dog—<strong>a cat’s a cat.</strong></span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With Cats, some say, one rule is true:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>Don’t speak till you are spoken to.</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Myself, I do not hold with that—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I say, you should ad-dress a Cat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But always keep in mind that he</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resents familiarity.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I bow, and taking off my hat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ad-dress him in this form: <strong>o cat!</strong></span>
				<br/>
				<span>But if he is the Cat next door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whom I have often met before</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(He comes to see me in my flat)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I greet him with an <strong>oops a cat!</strong></span>
				<br/>
				<span>I think I’ve heard them call him James—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we’ve not got so far as names.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Before a Cat will condescend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To treat you as a trusted friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some little token of esteem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is needed, like a dish of cream;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you might now and then supply</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some caviare, or Strassburg Pie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some potted grouse, or salmon paste—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’s sure to have his personal taste.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(I know a Cat, who makes a habit</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of eating nothing else but rabbit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when he’s finished, licks his paws</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So’s not to waste the onion sauce.)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A Cat’s entitled to expect</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These evidences of respect.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And so in time you reach your aim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And finally call him by his <strong>name</strong>.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So this is this, and that is that:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there’s how you <strong>ad-dress a Cat</strong>.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
